W-12236427-Add-APIkit-forGraphQL-CP (#108)
mulesoft/docs-apikit: modules/ROOT/pages/apikit-graphql-api-implementation.adoc

= Querying a GraphQL API Implementation
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="apikit"]

> The following examples showcase the implementation of a GraphQL service to query data using APIkit for GraphQL.

Reviewer: Not sure about showcase. Suggest illustrate.

Author: I like it! Thanks!

}

type User {
    id: ID!
    name: String
    username: String
    email: String
    phone: String
    website: String
    address: Address
}

type Address {
    id: ID!
    street: String
    city: String
    zipcode: String
    latitude: Float
    longitude: Float
}

input AddressInput {
    street: String
    city: String
    zipcode: String
    latitude: Float
    longitude: Float
}

input UserInput {
    name: String
    username: String
    email: String
    phone: String
    website: String
    address: AddressInput
}

type Query {
    # Looks for a user by ID
    getUser(id: ID!): User
    # Looks for a post by ID
    getPost(id: ID!): Post
    # Returns the list of all users
    allUsers: [User]
    # Returns the list of all posts
    allPosts: [Post]
}

type Mutation {
    # Creates a new user
    createUser(user: UserInput!): User!
    # Creates a new post
    createPost(userId: ID!, title: String!, body: String!): Post!
    # Adds a comment to a post
    postComment(userId: ID!, postId: ID!, body: String!): Comment!
    # Adds a reply to a comment
    replyToComment(commentId: ID!, userId: ID!, body: String!): Comment!
}
----

== Request Queries Examples

> In the following example, the type *Query* defines the list of queries that the service exposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the type *Query* defines the list of queries that the service exposes:
```

----
...
type Query {
    # Looks for a user by ID
    getUser(id: ID!): User
    # Looks for a post by ID
    getPost(id: ID!): Post
    # Returns the list of all users
    allUsers: [User]
    # Returns the list of all posts
    allPosts: [Post]
}
...
----

> === Retrieve All the Posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Retrieve All Posts
```

> This use case makes a simple request for the data of each existing post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This use case makes a simple request for the data of each existing post:
```

> ==== Make a Query

Reviewer: Is Make the right word here?

Author: "Pose a Query" seems to be a better option. 
Let's wait for the dev team comments.

Author: It has been decided to keep "Make a Query". Thanks!

----
{
   allPosts {
       id
       title
       body
   }
}
----

==== Trigger a Request

----
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:8081/graphql' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{"query":"{allPosts{id title body}}","variables":{}}'
----

==== Get a Response

----
{
   "data": {
       "allPosts": [
           {
               "id": "88",
               "title": "tellus nisi eu orci mauris lacinia sapien quis libero",

>                "body": "Praesent id massa id nisl venenatis lacinia. Aenean sit amet justo. Morbi ut odio.\n\nCras mi pede, malesuada in, imperdiet et, commodo vulputate, justo. In blandit ultrices enim. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit.\n\nProin interdum mauris non ligula pellentesque ultrices. Phasellus id sapien in sapien iaculis congue. Vivamus metus arcu, adipiscing molestie, hendrerit at, vulputate vitae, nisl."

Reviewer: Is it necessary to have the full body, with multiple \n\n?

Reviewer 2: This is mock data, feel free to simplify the body as you wish.

Author: As this is an example of a response, I guess we can get rid of the \n\n and create a single paragraph.
Let's wait for the dev team comments.

Author: Thanks for the clarification!

           },
           {
               "id": "89",
               "title": "mauris lacinia sapien quis libero",

>                "body": "Sed ante. Vivamus tortor. Duis mattis egestas metus.\n\nAenean fermentum. Donec ut mauris eget massa tempor convallis. Nulla neque libero, convallis eget, eleifend luctus, ultricies eu, nibh.\n\nQuisque id justo sit amet sapien dignissim vestibulum. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Nulla dapibus dolor vel est. Donec odio justo, sollicitudin ut, suscipit a, feugiat et, eros."

Reviewer: See prev q

Author: As this is an example of a response, I guess we can get rid of the \n\n and create a single paragraph.
Let's wait for the dev team comments.

Author: Removing \n\n from all the texts.
Thanks!

           },
           ...
           {
            "id": "87",
               "title": "nam tristique",

>                "body": "Proin eu mi. Nulla ac enim. In tempor, turpis nec euismod scelerisque, quam turpis adipiscing lorem, vitae mattis nibh ligula nec sem.\n\nDuis aliquam convallis nunc. Proin at turpis a pede posuere nonummy. Integer non velit.\n\nDonec diam neque, vestibulum eget, vulputate ut, ultrices vel, augue. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Donec pharetra, magna vestibulum aliquet ultrices, erat tortor sollicitudin mi, sit amet lobortis sapien sapien non mi. Integer ac neque."

Reviewer: See prev q

Author: As this is an example of a response, I guess we can get rid of the \n\n and create a single paragraph.
Let's wait for the dev team comments.

Author: Removing \n\n from the texts.
Thanks!

           }
       ]
   }
}
----

=== Retrieve All Users with Data Loader

> This query requests the data of all users, including their address information. In terms of implementation, this example uses a Data Loader to fetch the addresses of each user in only one request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This query requests the data of all users, including their address information. This example uses a Data Loader to fetch the addresses of each user with one request.
```

> ==== Make a Query

Reviewer: Make OK? Submit? Send?

Author: "Pose a Query" seems to be a better option. 
Should this title be consistent with the title in line 113?
Let's wait for the dev team comments.

Author: It has been decided to keep "Make a Query". Thanks!

----
{
   "data": {
       "allUsers": [
           {
               "name": "Rollin Sebley",
               "email": "rsebley2f@ucsd.edu",
               "website": "homestead.com",
               "address": {
                   "street": "432 Myrtle Trail",
                   "city": "Pau",
                   "zipcode": "64029 CEDEX 9"
               }
           },
           {
               "name": "Bonny Madgewick",
               "email": "bmadgewick2g@mozilla.com",
               "website": "utexas.edu",
               "address": {
                   "street": "5 David Terrace",
                   "city": "Oelaba",
                   "zipcode": null
               }
           },
           ...
           {
               "name": "Gretal Titmuss",
               "email": "gtitmuss2e@soup.io",
               "website": "creativecommons.org",
               "address": {
                   "street": "3201 Gale Place",
                   "city": "Bolo",
                   "zipcode": "4201"
               }
           }
       ]
   }
}
----

=== Retrieve a Post by ID

This query example requests the post data by its ID, including the post comments and the usernames.

> ==== Make a Query

Author: "Pose a Query" seems to be a better option.
Should this title be consistent with the title in line 113?
Let's wait for the dev team comments.

Author: It has been decided to keep "Make a Query". Thanks!

           "comments": [
               {
                   "user": {
                       "username": "cwalesby1p"
                   },
                   "body": "Praesent blandit. Nam nulla. Integer pede justo, lacinia eget, tincidunt eget, tempus vel, pede.\n\nMorbi porttitor lorem id ligula. Suspendisse ornare consequat lectus. In est risus, auctor sed, tristique in, tempus sit amet, sem.",
                   "replies": []
               },
               {
                   "user": {
                       "username": "rricci2d"
                   },
                   "body": "Maecenas leo odio, condimentum id, luctus nec, molestie sed, justo. Pellentesque viverra pede ac diam. Cras pellentesque volutpat dui.",
                   "replies": []
               }
           ]
       }
   }
}
----

== Request Mutations Examples

> The type *Mutation* defines the list of mutations that the service enables.

Reviewer: Suggest either:
The type, *Mutation*, 
or
The *Mutation* type

Reviewer 3: both sound right I vote -> The Mutation type

Author: "Mutation type" seems to be more appropriate. Thanks!

----
...
type Mutation {
    # Creates a new user
    createUser(user: UserInput!): User!
    # Creates a new post
    createPost(userId: ID!, title: String!, body: String!): Post!
    # Adds a comment to a post
    postComment(userId: ID!, postId: ID!, body: String!): Comment!
    # Adds a reply to a comment
    replyToComment(commentId: ID!, userId: ID!, body: String!): Comment!
}
...
----

=== Create a New Post

This example request creates a new post and asks for some information about it.

> ==== Make a Query

Author: "Pose a Query" seems to be a better option.
Should this title be consistent with the title in line 113?
Let's wait for the dev team comments.

Author: It has been decided to keep "Make a Query". Thanks!

> This example request creates a new post and asks for some information on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example request creates a new post and asks for some information about it.
```

----
mutation CreatePost($userId: ID!, $title: String!, $body: String!) {
   createPost(userId: $userId,title: $title,body: $body) { 
       id
       user {
           username
       }
       title
       body
       comments {
           body
       }
   }
}
----

> ==== Make Variables

Author: "Pose Variables" seems to be a better option.
Should this title be consistent with the title in line 113?
Let's wait for the dev team comments.

Author: It has been decided to keep "Make Variables". Thanks!

----
{
   "userId": 42,
   "title": "GraphQL by example",
   "body": "Let's talk about GraphQL"
}
----

==== Trigger a Request

----
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:8081/graphql' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{"query":"mutation CreatePost($userId:ID!,$title:String!,$body:String!){createPost(userId:$userId,title:$title,body:$body){id user{username}title body comments{body}}}","variables":{"userId":42,"title":"GraphQL by example","body":"Let'\''s talk about GraphQL"}}'
----

==== Get a Response

----
{
   "data": {
       "createPost": {
           "id": "101",
           "user": {
               "username": "tblackmore15"
           },
           "title": "GraphQL by example",
           "body": "Let's talk about GraphQL",
           "comments": []
       }
   }
}
----

=== Add a Comment to the New Post

> This use case posts a comment in reply to the post created in the previous step. It also asks for the service to return the body of the comment created and the original post with its list of comments to check that the new one is included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example posts a comment in a reply to the post created in the previous step. It also asks for the service to return the body of the comment created and the original post with its list of comments to check that the new one is included.
```

Reviewer: (to be consistent with the others)

> ==== Make a Query

Reviewer: I guess Make is correct :>

Reviewer: Should these `====` have intro sentences?

Author: Regarding the "Make a Query" titles, I'll keep them. If my knowledge gives me the possibility to find a better option, I'll change them in the future.
Regarding the ==== intro sentences, it was hard for us to think of a sentence that would not repeat the words of the title, so we did it without them to avoid repetitions.
Thanks!

}
----

==== Trigger a Request

----
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:8081/graphql' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{"query":"mutation PostComment($userId:ID!,$postId:ID!,$body:String!){postComment(userId:$userId,postId:$postId,body:$body){id body post{id title comments{id user{username}body}}}}","variables":{"userId":34,"postId":101,"body":"Nice post! Thanks for sharing! It'\''s just what I was looking for"}}'
----

==== Get a Response

----
{
   "data": {
       "postComment": {
           "id": "201",
           "body": "Nice post! Thanks for sharing! It's just what I was looking for",
           "post": {
               "id": "101",
               "title": "GraphQL by example",
               "comments": [
                   {
                       "id": "201",
                       "user": {
                           "username": "ekosex"
                       },
                       "body": "Nice post! Thanks for sharing! It's just what I was looking for"
                   }
               ]
           }
       }
   }
}
----

=== Reply to the New Comment in the Post

> This example request adds a comment of the user that created the original post in response to the previous comment. The query asks the service to return all the information of the post in addition to the new reply.

Reviewer: Can you simplify the first sentence? It's a little hard to parse. Is this just including the comment in the response to the comment?

Reviewer 2: What about `This request example creates a reply in response to the comment posted in the previous step`?

Author: I like it! Thanks!

==== Make a Query

----
mutation ReplyToComment($commentId: ID!, $userId: ID!, $body: String!) {
   replyToComment(commentId: $commentId, userId: $userId, body: $body) {
       id
       body
       post {
           id
           title
           comments {
               id
               body
               replies {
                   id
                   user {
                       username
                   }
                   body
               }
           }
       }  
   }
}
----

> ==== Make Variables

Reviewer: Look at all these `====` and make sure they're consistently singular or plural. I think they're usually singular.

Author: Great catch! Thanks!
